Spring cloud contract (#1009)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-01-13-spring-cloud-contract.md

    }

    @Test
    public void get_hat3() {
        try {
            RestTemplate restTemplate = new RestTemplate();
            ResponseEntity<Hat> responseEntity = restTemplate.getForEntity("http://localhost:8100/hat/3", Hat.class);
        }
        catch (HttpClientErrorException ex) {
            assertThat(ex.getStatusCode()).isEqualTo(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND);
        }
    }
}
```

The producer stubs are imported with this line:

```java
@AutoConfigureStubRunner(ids = {"com.example:producer:+:stubs:8100"}, stubsMode = StubRunnerProperties.StubsMode.LOCAL)
```

You're specifying the `com.example:producer` project, with the latest version, the stubs (not the jar), and telling the stub runner to start the stubbed service on port `8100`. Putting the stub runner in `LOCAL` mode means that it will look in the local Maven repo instead of looking online, which can be configured using the `REMOTE` value here. With that single annotation, Spring will create a service on port `8100` based on the stubs and generated from the contracts in the producer project. 

You also define three tests that match the expected behavior defined in the contracts. 

> Next, create a more realistic integration test on the consumer in a new file, `ContractProducerTest.java`.
> 
> `src/test/java/com/example/consumer/ContractProducerTest.java`
> 
> ```java
> package com.example.consumer;
> 
> import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
> import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
> import org.springframework.boot.test.autoconfigure.web.servlet.AutoConfigureMockMvc;
> import org.springframework.boot.test.context.SpringBootTest;
> import org.springframework.cloud.contract.stubrunner.spring.AutoConfigureStubRunner;
> import org.springframework.cloud.contract.stubrunner.spring.StubRunnerProperties;
> import org.springframework.test.web.servlet.MockMvc;
> import static org.hamcrest.Matchers.containsString;
> import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.request.MockMvcRequestBuilders.get;
> import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.result.MockMvcResultHandlers.print;
> import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.result.MockMvcResultMatchers.content;
> import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.result.MockMvcResultMatchers.status;
> 
> @SpringBootTest
> @AutoConfigureMockMvc
> @AutoConfigureStubRunner(ids = {"com.example:producer:+:stubs:8100"}, stubsMode = StubRunnerProperties.StubsMode.LOCAL)
> public class ConsumerIntegrationTest {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a more realistic integration test on the consumer in a new file, `ContractIntegrationTest.java`.

`src/test/java/com/example/consumer/ContractIntegrationTest.java`

```java
package com.example.consumer;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.boot.test.autoconfigure.web.servlet.AutoConfigureMockMvc;
import org.springframework.boot.test.context.SpringBootTest;
import org.springframework.cloud.contract.stubrunner.spring.AutoConfigureStubRunner;
import org.springframework.cloud.contract.stubrunner.spring.StubRunnerProperties;
import org.springframework.test.web.servlet.MockMvc;
import static org.hamcrest.Matchers.containsString;
import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.request.MockMvcRequestBuilders.get;
import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.result.MockMvcResultHandlers.print;
import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.result.MockMvcResultMatchers.content;
import static org.springframework.test.web.servlet.result.MockMvcResultMatchers.status;

@SpringBootTest
@AutoConfigureMockMvc
@AutoConfigureStubRunner(ids = {"com.example:producer:+:stubs:8100"}, stubsMode = StubRunnerProperties.StubsMode.LOCAL)
public class ContractIntegrationTest {
```

Change to match https://github.com/moksamedia/okta-spring-cloud-contract/pull/2.

tags: [java, spring-cloud-contract, spring-security, spring-boot, oauth2]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-cloud-contract-example
---

Spring Cloud Contract was created as a way to help test interconnected microservices. Generally speaking, there are two options when testing microservices: 1) you can deploy the entire mesh of services in your integration tests and test against that, or 2) you can mock each service in your integration tests. Both of these options have serious drawbacks. 

The first, deploying the entire mesh of microservices for testing, has the obvious drawback of being difficult, if not impossible, in many environments. It's simply not always feasible to deploy a whole mesh of services just for integration testing. The second solution, writing separate mocks for each projects' integration tests, has the problem of being potentially unreliable. This is because integration tests are written in a separate service from the code actually governing the function that the test is modeling, and as such, can easily drift away from the desired behavior. 

{% include toc.md %}

> Imagine a simple microservice with a producer and a consumer. When writing tests in the consumer project, you have to write mocks or stubs that model the behavior of the producer project, while conversely, when you write tests in the producer project, you have to write mocks or stubs that model the behavior of the consumer project. As such, multiple sets of related, redundant code have to be maintained in parallel in disconnected projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine a simple microservice with a producer and a consumer. When writing tests in the consumer project, you have to write mocks or stubs that model the behavior of the producer project. Conversely, when you write tests in the producer project, you have to write mocks or stubs that model the behavior of the consumer project. As such, multiple sets of related, redundant code have to be maintained in parallel in disconnected projects.
```
simplifying long multi-clause sentence

For every change made to the producer project, the developer needs to go to the consumer project -- a totally separate code base -- and make sure that the integration tests there reflect the new behavior producer. Keeping this up across a complex system with many different services, at best, requires a lot of discipline, and at worst, is unlikely. It's very easy for integration tests to give a false sense of security and not actually reflect the reality of the service being tested.

What is needed is a way to ensure that the mocked (or stubbed) behavior of the test objects is connected to the actual behavior of the objects being modeled. Ideally, these mocked objects would be defined in the project they represent.

Spring Cloud Contract does exactly this. It provides a way of specifying specific behavior for a service -- the "contract" -- and testing for compliance with this contract **within that project itself** while allowing other projects to load these contracts as stubs that can be mocked for integration testing. 

{% img blog/spring-cloud-contract/spring-cloud-contract-diagram.png alt:"Spring Cloud Contract Diagram" width:"700" %}{: .center-image }

> A brief aside on "mocks" and "stubs". "Mock" gets used in ways online that is somewhat generic, meaning any fake object used for testing, and this can get confusing when differentiating "mocks" from "stubs". However, specifically, a "mock" is an object that tests for behavior by registering expected method calls before a test run while a "stub" is a testable version of the object with callable methods that return pre-set values. Thus, a mock checks to see if the object being tested makes an expected sequence of calls to the object being mocked, and throws an error if the behavior deviates (that is, makes any unexpected calls), while a stub does not do any testing itself, per se, but instead will return canned responses to pre-determined methods to allow tests to run (of course, it can throw an error if unexpected calls are made as well, so stubs do constrain behavior in that sense as well). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A brief aside on "mocks" and "stubs". "Mock" gets used in ways online that is somewhat generic, meaning any fake object used for testing, and this can get confusing when differentiating "mocks" from "stubs". However, specifically, a "mock" is an object that tests for behavior by registering expected method calls before a test run. In contrast, a "stub" is a testable version of the object with callable methods that return pre-set values. Thus, a mock checks to see if the object being tested makes an expected sequence of calls to the object being mocked, and throws an error if the behavior deviates (that is, makes any unexpected calls). A stub does not do any testing itself, per se, but instead will return canned responses to pre-determined methods to allow tests to run. (Of course, a stub can throw an error if unexpected calls are made as well, so stubs do constrain behavior in that sense as well.)
```
Breaking up several complex, multi-clause sentences to increase readability, especially for readers less familiar with the technologies and terminologies in question.

> In this tutorial, you're going to create a simple Spring Boot **producer** that serves hats and a Spring Boot **consumer** that presents hats to the user (really hat specification object instances). The consumer will retrieve the hats from the producer before presenting them. You will use Spring Cloud Contract to write a contract that describes what the producer service should return based on certain resource queries. Spring Cloud Contract will automatically generate integration tests from the producer contract, which will verify that the producer is behaving according to the specification of the contract, and will also generate stubs that can be imported into other projects to assist in integration testing. Next, on the consumer side, you will import these stubs into the consumer's integration tests as a mocked object that can be used in testing the consumer. You will also see how Okta can be used as an OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider to add security to the Spring Boot project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you're going to create a simple Spring Boot **producer** that serves hats and a Spring Boot **consumer** that presents hats to the user (really hat specification object instances). The consumer will retrieve the hats from the producer before presenting them. You will use Spring Cloud Contract to write a contract that describes what the producer service should return based on certain resource queries. Spring Cloud Contract will automatically generate integration tests from the producer contract, which will verify that the producer is behaving according to the specification of the contract. It will also generate stubs that can be imported into other projects to assist in integration testing. Next, on the consumer side, you will import these stubs into the consumer's integration tests as a mocked object that can be used in testing the consumer. You will also see how Okta can be used as an OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider to add security to the Spring Boot project.
```
Breaking up a lengthy sentence for ease-of-reading

**Prerequisites:**

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have a few tools installed.

- **Okta CLI**: The Okta CLI is an easy way to create projects that use Okta for security. Follow the installation instructions on the [Okta CLI project website](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation). You should log in to your existing account or register for a new account using the CLI before continuing with the tutorial.

- **Java 11**: This project uses Java 11. OpenJDK 11 will work just as well.  Instructions are found on the [OpenJDK website](https://openjdk.java.net/install/). OpenJDK can also be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/). Alternatively, [SDKMAN](https://sdkman.io/) is another excellent option for installing and managing Java versions.

- **HTTPie**: This is a powerful command-line HTTP request utility you'll use to test both Spring Boot resource servers. Install it according to [the docs on their site](https://httpie.org/doc#installation).

> ## Bootstrap the Producer Project using Spring Initialzr

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Bootstrap the producer project using Spring Initialzr
```
switched to sentence case for all article headers to align with broader Okta Dev style guide. Only article titles use title case.

## Bootstrap the Producer Project using Spring Initialzr

You'll use the Spring Initializr project to bootstrap the Producer project. Open [this link](https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=2.6.2&packaging=jar&jvmVersion=11&groupId=com.example&artifactId=producer&name=producer&description=Producer%20project%20for%20Spring%20Boot%20Contract&packageName=com.example.contract&dependencies=web,cloud-contract-verifier,lombok) to access the pre-configured starter project.

> {% img blog/spring-cloud-contract/producer-starter-config.png alt:"Producer Starter Configuration" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: This needs to be updated for Spring Boot 2.6.2.

> - **[Spring Web](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/reference/html/web.html)**: adds the basic HTTP/web capabilities to build a REST API 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Spring Web](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/reference/html/web.html)**: adds the basic HTTP/web capabilities to build a REST API.
```
add period

> - **[Contract Verifier](https://spring.io/projects/spring-cloud-contract)**: brings in Spring Cloud Contract project by enabling Consumer Drive Contracts and stub generation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Contract Verifier](https://spring.io/projects/spring-cloud-contract)**: brings in Spring Cloud Contract project by enabling Consumer Drive Contracts and stub generation.
```
add period

> - **[Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/)**: helper project that will generate some getters, setters, and constructors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/)**: is a helper project that will generate some getters, setters, and constructors.
```
making it a sentence for parallelism/consistency

When you're ready, click **Generate** and save the zip file in an appropriate parent directory. You'll be making two Spring Boot projects (as mentioned, a producer and a consumer), so it probably makes sense to have a parent directory named something like `Spring Cloud Contract Tutorial` or `spring-cloud-contract-tutorial` (if you dislike spaces in directory names). 

> Unzip the file and open the directory in your favorite editor or IDE (I'm an IDE/IntelliJ man myself -- hopefully that's not disappointing to y'all -- because in the immortal words of Buckaroo Banzai "Life is too short for vim.").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unzip the file and open the directory in your favorite editor or IDE. (I'm an IDE/IntelliJ man myself -- hopefully that's not disappointing to y'all -- because in the immortal words of Buckaroo Banzai "Life is too short for vim".)
```
One sentence into two. (Once.)

Let's start by building the hat producer. Both the producer and consumer projects will be Spring Boot resource servers that use Spring Web to implement a simple REST API.

Create a `Hat.java` file that is the data model for the hats the producer will serve.

`src/main/java/com/example/contract/Hat.java`

```java
package com.example.contract;

import lombok.AllArgsConstructor;
import lombok.Data;

@Data
@AllArgsConstructor
public class Hat {
    private Long id;
    private String name;
    private Long size;
    private String color;
}
```

> The hat has four attributes, an `id` as well as `name`, `size`, and `color`. Notice the two annotations. These are what Lombok helped us with. The `@Data` annotation generates getters and setters as well as a `toString()` and a constructor for all required arguments ([check out the docs](https://projectlombok.org/features/Data)). The `@AllArgsConstructor` annotation generates an constructor for all fields in the class. I really like it because it de-clutters the data model classes and saves some time generating all of the 'ceremony' methods. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The hat has four attributes, an `id` as well as `name`, `size`, and `color`. Notice the two annotations. These are what Lombok helped us with. The `@Data` annotation generates getters and setters as well as a `toString()` and a constructor for all required arguments ([check out the docs](https://projectlombok.org/features/Data)). The `@AllArgsConstructor` annotation generates a constructor for all fields in the class. I really like it because it de-clutters the data model classes and saves some time generating all of the 'ceremony' methods. 
```
typo

        hatMap.put(1L, new Hat(1L, "Sombrero", 30L, "red"));
        hatMap.put(2L, new Hat(2L, "Beanie", 5L, "blue"));
    }
    Hat findHatById(Long id) {
        return hatMap.get(id);
    }
}
```

Lastly, create a `HatController.java` that is what exposes your single resource endpoint. 

`src/main/java/com/example/contract/HatController.java`

```java
package com.example.contract;

import org.springframework.http.HttpStatus;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.PathVariable;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
import org.springframework.web.server.ResponseStatusException;

@RestController
public class HatController {
    private final HatService hatService;

    public HatController(HatService hatService) {
        this.hatService = hatService;
    }

    @GetMapping("hat/{id}")
    public Hat findHatById(@PathVariable("id") Long id) {
        Hat hat = hatService.findHatById(id);
        if (hat == null) {
            throw new ResponseStatusException(
                    HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND, "Not Found"
            );
        }
        return hat;
    }
}
```

> The HatController uses Spring's dependency injection to get the HatService as a bean. It then uses the service to lookup hats by ID and serve them to the consumer of the REST service endpoint at `/hat/{id}`. 

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to add a link to what is meant by 'bean'? Something like this: https://www.baeldung.com/spring-bean
Obviously I'm not your target reader, but for a moment I harked back to the blue beanie... Thanks!

Author: It's a pretty basic concept in Spring. It's sort of a foundational idea. I dunno if we're getting into that level of tutorial.

Author: Maybe say "as a Spring bean?" Or just remove "as a bean." It's prob not necessary anyway.

Reviewer 2: I'll leave it as you wrote it.

You now have a working hat producer. Start the project with the following command:

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Once the service has started, you can open a second terminal and use HTTPie to test it.

```bash
http :8080/hat/1
```

```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 
...
{
    "color": "red",
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Sombrero",
    "size": 30
}
```

> ## Create the Producer Contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create the producer contract
```
sentence case heading

Next, you need to write the contracts that define the interservice agreement to govern the behavior of the producer. This is where Spring Cloud Contract comes in and things get interesting.

> You're going to create three contracts under `src/test/resources/contracts`. The contracts can be written in YAML or as a Groovy, Java, or Kotlin DSL script. In this tutorial I've chosen to go with the Groovy. According to the spec, you can put multiple contracts in one file, which is what I initially did. This worked fine on the producer side, but when I tried to import the stubs on the consumer side for integration testing, it didn't work. For this reason, the three contracts below are in three separate files. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You're going to create three contracts under `src/test/resources/contracts`. The contracts can be written in YAML or as a Groovy, Java, or Kotlin DSL script. In this tutorial I've chosen to go with the [Groovy](https://groovy-lang.org/). According to the spec, you can put multiple contracts in one file, which is what I initially did. This worked fine on the producer side, but when I tried to import the stubs on the consumer side for integration testing, it didn't work. For this reason, the three contracts below are in three separate files. 
```
Add a link to Groovy, which is likely less familiar to readers

Create the first contract in your `src/test/resources` directory. 

`src/test/resources/contracts/find_hat_by_id.groovy`

```groovy
package contracts

import org.springframework.cloud.contract.spec.Contract

Contract.make {
    description "should return hat by id=1"

    request {
        url "/hat/1"
        method GET()
    }

    response {
        status OK()
        headers {
            contentType applicationJson()
        }
        body (
                id: 1,
                name: "Test Hat 1",
                size: 10,
                color: "striped"
        )
    }

}
```

> In the `request` block, this contract defines the request method at `GET` and the request URL as `/hat/1`. In the `response` block, this contract specifies that the status should be `OK`, the headers should be `applicationJson`, and the attributes of the red sombrero should be returned. This contract is pretty simple, but the DSL has a lot of power. [Take a look at the docs](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-contract/reference/html/project-features.html) to dig deeper.

Reviewer 2: "this contract defines the request method at `GET`" -> 
this contract defines the request method as `GET`
at-> as ?
 is this a typo? Not sure.

```

... in the `<configuration>` block of the `spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin` plugin.

```xml
<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.springframework.cloud</groupId>
            <artifactId>spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>3.1.0</version>
            <extensions>true</extensions>
            <configuration>
                ...
                <baseClassForTests>com.example.contract.BaseClass</baseClassForTests>
            </configuration>
        </plugin>
        ...
    </plugins>
</build>
```

You might notice that the stubbed service created in the base test class above is returning different hats than the hats served by the producer application itself. Don't get confused. The contract and the base test class define **testing** behavior. The application is defining **live, production** behavior (of course, here it's pretty simplistic and test-like since the implementation is really just for demonstration purposes). Thus integration tests will be expecting `/hat/1` to return `Test Hat 1` while, as you'll see below, when you run the application, the same endpoint will return `Sombrero`. 

> ## Generate the Stubs and Test the Producer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Generate the stubs and test the producer
```
sentence case

```bash
[INFO] Installing /home/andrewcarterhughes/Development/okta/2021/spring-book-contracts/QA1/producer/target/producer-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar to /home/andrewcarterhughes/.m2/repository/com/example/producer/0.0.1-SNAPSHOT/producer-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
[INFO] Installing /home/andrewcarterhughes/Development/okta/2021/spring-book-contracts/QA1/producer/pom.xml to /home/andrewcarterhughes/.m2/repository/com/example/producer/0.0.1-SNAPSHOT/producer-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.pom
[INFO] Installing /home/andrewcarterhughes/Development/okta/2021/spring-book-contracts/QA1/producer/target/producer-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-stubs.jar to /home/andrewcarterhughes/.m2/repository/com/example/producer/0.0.1-SNAPSHOT/producer-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-stubs.jar
```

These stubs are what you will, in a few minutes, import into the consumer application for integration testing. **Notice how, because of the autogenerated integration testing, the behavior of the stubs is guaranteed to match the behavior tested and defined by the contract.** This is awesome. However, bear in mind, "the devil is in the contract," as they say. 

> This tool will only be as good as the quality of the contract (and thus the tests derived from the contract). This provides a light-weight way to test and link behavior between two services without having to link their code or without having to maintain redundant, separate code bases (mocks and stubs vs the actual object), but you still have to be intelligent about what you define in the contract and ensure that the contract reflects the required behavior of the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tool will only be as good as the quality of the contract (and thus the tests derived from the contract). It provides a lightweight way to test and link behavior between two services without having to link their code or maintain redundant, separate code bases (mocks and stubs vs the actual object). But still, you have to be intelligent about what you define in the contract and ensure that the contract reflects the required behavior of the service.
```
simplifying sentences for readability.

2021-12-19 09:33:30.852  INFO 26154 --- [           main] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat started on port(s): 8080 (http) with context path ''
2021-12-19 09:33:30.859  INFO 26154 --- [           main] c.example.contract.ProducerApplication   : Started ProducerApplication in 0.918 seconds (JVM running for 1.095)
```

In a separate window, use HTTPie to make a few requests on the service.

```bash
http :8080/hat/1
```

```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 
...
{
    "color": "red",
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Sombrero",
    "size": 30
}
```

```bash
http :8080/hat/2
```

```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 
...
{
    "color": "blue",
    "id": 2,
    "name": "Beanie",
    "size": 5
}
```

```bash
http :8080/hat/3
```

```bash
HTTP/1.1 404 
...
{
    "error": "Not Found",
    "path": "/hat/3",
    "status": 404,
    ...
}
```

Remember that here you are seeing the "live" data, not the test data that is defined in the base test class and the contracts. In production, this live data would likely be complex data structures residing in a database and would not be so easily generated as is being done in the `HatService` class.

> ## Add Identity with Okta

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add identity with Okta
```
sentence case

   }

   @EnableWebSecurity
   public class OAuth2ResourceServerSecurityConfiguration extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

      @Override
      protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
         http.authorizeRequests()
             .anyRequest().authenticated()
             .and()
             .oauth2ResourceServer().jwt();
      }
   }
}
```

Finally, you need to add the Issuer URI to your `application.properties` file. You need to replace `{yourOktaDomain}` in the line below with your Okta domain. 

`src/main/resources/application.properties`

```properties
okta.oauth2.issuer=https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
```

You can find your Okta URI by typing `okta login` from the command line. It should print out something like the following.

```bash
Okta Org already configured: https://dev-123456.okta.com/
```

You can also find your Issuer URI by opening your Okta Admin Console and navigating to **Security** > **API** and looking at the **Issuer URI** for the `default` authorization server. 

Start the application (or, if it is still running, use `control-c` to stop it and restart it).

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

> ## Generate a JWT and Test the Secure App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Generate a JWT and test the secure app
```
sentence case

{% include setup/cli.md type="web" install="false" loginRedirectUri="https://oidcdebugger.com/debug" %}

{% include setup/oidcdebugger.md %}

Once you have the token value, save it in a shell variable (in the terminal window where you are going to run the HTTPie command to test the authenticated application).

```bash
TOKEN=eyJraWQiOiJDVkdzamc2MDBCNVFXR3VSdVRDckJuLVhLa2J...
```

Test the authenticated application using the token.

```bash
http :8080/hat/1 "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
```

Make sure you use double quotes in the command above, otherwise the variable will not be expanded.

You should get the first hat returned.

```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 
...
{
    "color": "red",
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Sombrero",
    "size": 30
}
```

One of the benefits of the Spring Cloud Contract project is that the mocked and stubbed test objects bypass authentication. This is super helpful (as long as you are not testing application security, of course). You can run `./mvnw clean install` or `./mvnw test` and you will see that the integration tests still pass and that the stubs are still being generated and deployed.

> ## Create the Consumer Application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create the consumer application
```

> The next step is to create the consumer application. This will simulate a public-facing service that will retrieve hats from the producer and serve them to the clients. The key point in this tutorial is to see how the stubs generated from the producer project can be imported into the consumer project and used to verify application behavior.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next step is to create the consumer application. This will simulate a public-facing service to retrieve hats from the producer and serve them to the clients. The key point in this tutorial is to see how the stubs generated from the producer project can be imported into the consumer project and used to verify application behavior.  
```

@SpringBootApplication
public class ConsumerApplication {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(ConsumerApplication.class, args);
    }

    @RestController
    public class HatConsumerResource {

        @Value( "${producer.port}" )
        private Integer producerPort;

        private final RestTemplate restTemplate;

        HatConsumerResource(RestTemplateBuilder restTemplateBuilder) {
            this.restTemplate = restTemplateBuilder.build();
        }

        @RequestMapping("/wearhat/{hatId}")
        String getMessage(@PathVariable("hatId") Long personId, @RequestHeader("authorization") String authorizationHeader) {

            HttpHeaders headers = new HttpHeaders();
            headers.set("Authorization", authorizationHeader);
            HttpEntity<Void> requestEntity = new HttpEntity<>(headers);

            ResponseEntity<Hat> response = restTemplate.exchange("http://localhost:"+producerPort+"/hat/{hatId}", HttpMethod.GET, requestEntity, Hat.class, personId);
            Hat hat = response.getBody();

            return "Enjoy your new " + hat.getName();
        }

    }
}
```

> Add a line to the `application.properties` file to change the application port from the default, 8080, to 8081 so that it does not conflict with the producer application. You're also going to specify the producer port in the properties file so that the integration tests can use a different port for the mocked service (you'll see why in a bit).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a line to the `application.properties` file to change the application port from the default, 8080, to 8081 so that it does not conflict with the producer application. You're also going to specify the producer port in the properties file so that the integration tests can use a different port for the mocked service. (You'll see why in a bit.)
```

`src/main/resources/application.properties`

```properties
server.port=8081
producer.port=8080
```

> This is a very simple consumer service. It makes a request to the producer for a hat by ID, simply passing along the `Authorization` header. The project could be made more realistic by adding security to the consumer as well (the process would be exactly as described above for the producer). And in a live scenario, this service would probably be pulling data from multiple other services and performing some sort of business logic before returning a value. However, here, the goal here is to demonstrate the stubs and integration testing, so I'm keeping the consumer itself as basic as possible. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a very simple consumer service. It makes a request to the producer for a hat by ID, simply passing along the `Authorization` header. The project could be made more realistic by adding security to the consumer as well. (The process would be exactly as described above for the producer.) And in a live scenario, this service would probably be pulling data from multiple other services and performing some sort of business logic before returning a value. However, here, the goal here is to demonstrate the stubs and integration testing, so I'm keeping the consumer itself as basic as possible. 
```

Make sure your producer application is still running. In a new shell, run the consumer application.

```
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Once the application is running, you can use the auth token you created earlier to make a request on the consumer (which will pass along the request to the secured producer).

```bash
http :8081/wearhat/1 "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
```

You should see the following.

```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 
...

Enjoy your new Sombrero

```

> ## Import the Producer Stubs Into the Consumer Project and Create Integration Tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Import the producer stubs into the consumer project and create integration tests
```
sentence case

@SpringBootTest
@AutoConfigureMockMvc
@AutoConfigureStubRunner(ids = {"com.example:producer:+:stubs:8100"}, stubsMode = StubRunnerProperties.StubsMode.LOCAL)
public class ConsumerIntegrationTest {

    @Autowired
    private MockMvc mockMvc;

    @Test
    public void shouldReturnDefaultMessage() throws Exception {
        this.mockMvc.perform(
                get("/wearhat/1").header("authorization", "dummyvalue"))
                .andDo(print())
                .andExpect(status().isOk())
                .andExpect(content().string(containsString("Enjoy your new Test Hat 1")));
    }

}

```

This is why you specified the producer port in the `application.properties` file. By using different ports in `src/test/java` and `src/main/java` you are able to direct the tests to the stubbed producer, which allows you to create a true integration test. In the test above, the mocked consumer calls the stubbed producer and returns the result, which is checked against the expected value. Otherwise, when you ran the test above, it would try and call the producer on port `8080`, which would call the actual producer running on that port.

> // todo: add information on how to run the tests. ContractProducerTest#get_hat2() fails for me

Reviewer: @moksamedia `ContractProducerTest#get_hat2()` fails for me. I created the apps from scratch and created a PR for your repo with my changes. https://github.com/moksamedia/okta-spring-cloud-contract/pull/1

> ## Learn More About Spring Boot and Spring Cloud Contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Learn more about Spring Boot and Spring Cloud Contract
```

In this tutorial you saw how Spring Cloud Contract can be used with Spring Boot to improve integration testing of Java-based microservices. You also saw how Okta can be used to implement OAuth 2.0 and OIDC security in a Spring Boot application.

> You can find the source code for this example in our [okta-spring-cloud-contract-example](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-cloud-contract-example) repository.

Reviewer: Needs a README.

## Generate the Stubs and Test the Producer

To generate the stubs and the integration tests for the contracts, you run the following Maven command.
To generate the stubs and the integration tests for the contracts, run the following Maven command.

```bash

> ./mvnw clean install

Reviewer: Using `clean` with Maven is an anti-pattern.

These lines tell you that Spring found the contracts in the `src/test/resources/contracts` folder, used the base test class defined in the `pom.xml`, and generated integration tests based on the contracts.

> // todo: Add header here

Reviewer: I think this post needs more keywords in its headers for SEO.

This tool will only be as good as the quality of the contract (and thus the tests derived from the contract). This provides a light-weight way to test and link behavior between two services without having to link their code or without having to maintain redundant, separate code bases (mocks and stubs vs the actual object), but you still have to be intelligent about what you define in the contract and ensure that the contract reflects the required behavior of the service.

> // todo: Add header here

Reviewer: @moksamedia FYI...

Start the service by running the following command.

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

> In a separate window, use HTTPie to make a few requests on the service.

Reviewer: I think it's cleaner without this part.
